###### Default Port
80 


HTTP Request Overview:

Method    i.e. GET,POST,DELETE,PUT
Path.        i.e. /users/login.html
Version    i.e. HTTP/1.1

*****Note:** 
HTTP version 1.X sends requests as clear-text, and uses a new-line character to separate different fields and different requests. HTTP version 2.X sends requests as binary data in a dictionary form.

HTTP Request

Version  i.e. HTTP/1.1
Repsonse Code:   i.e. 200, 301, 4040 ,400 ,500, 501


HTTP Headers:
1. `General Headers`
	- used in both HTTP requests and responses. They are contextual and are used to `describe the message rather than its contents`.
	- Date:
		- Holds the date and time at which the message originated. It's preferred to convert the time to the standard [UTC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time) time zone.
		- i.e. Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2022 10:38:44 GMT
	- Connection:
		- Dictates if the current network connection should stay alive after the request finishes. Two commonly used values for this header are `close` and `keep-alive`. The `close` value from either the client or server means that they would like to terminate the connection, while the `keep-alive` header indicates that the connection should remain open to receive more data and input.
		- i.e. Connection: close
	  
2. `Entity Headers`
	- can be `common to both the request and response`. These headers are used to `describe the content` (entity) transferred by a message. They are usually found in responses and POST or PUT requests.
	- Content-type:
		- Used to describe the type of resource being transferred. The value is automatically added by the browsers on the client-side and returned in the server response. The `charset` field denotes the encoding standard, such as [UTF-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8).
	- Media-type:
		- The `media-type` is similar to `Content-Type`, and describes the data being transferred. This header can play a crucial role in making the server interpret our input. The `charset` field may also be used with this header.
	- Boundary:
		- Acts as a marker to separate content when there is more than one in the same message. For example, within a form data, this boundary gets used as `--b4e4fbd93540` to separate different parts of the form.
	- Content-length:
		- Holds the size of the entity being passed. This header is necessary as the server uses it to read data from the message body, and is automatically generated by the browser and tools like cURL.
	- Content-Encoding:
		- Data can undergo multiple transformations before being passed. For example, large amounts of data can be compressed to reduce the message size. The type of encoding being used should be specified using the `Content-Encoding` header.|
3. `Request Headers`
	- These headers are `used in an HTTP request and do not relate to the content` of the message.
	- Host:
		- Used to specify the host being queried for the resource. This can be a domain name or an IP address. HTTP servers can be configured to host different websites, which are revealed based on the hostname. This makes the host header an important enumeration target, as it can indicate the existence of other hosts on the target server.
		- i.e. Host: www.test.com
	- User-Agent:
		- The `User-Agent` header is used to describe the client requesting resources. This header can reveal a lot about the client, such as the browser, its version, and the operating system.
		- i.e. User-Agent: curl/7.77.0
	- Referrer:
		- Denotes where the current request is coming from. For example, clicking a link from Google search results would make `https://google.com` the referer. Trusting this header can be dangerous as it can be easily manipulated, leading to unintended consequences.
		- i.e. Referer: http://www.test.com/
	- Accept:
		- The `Accept` header describes which media types the client can understand. It can contain multiple media types separated by commas. The `*/*` value signifies that all media types are accepted.
		- i.e. Accept: */*
	- Cookie:
		- Contains cookie-value pairs in the format `name=value`. A [cookie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie) is a piece of data stored on the client-side and on the server, which acts as an identifier. These are passed to the server per request, thus maintaining the client's access. Cookies can also serve other purposes, such as saving user preferences or session tracking. There can be multiple cookies in a single header separated by a semi-colon.
	- Authorization
		- Another method for the server to identify clients. After successful authentication, the server returns a token unique to the client. Unlike cookies, tokens are stored only on the client-side and retrieved by the server per request. There are multiple types of authentication types based on the webserver and application type used.
4. `Response Headers`
	- can be `used in an HTTP response and do not relate to the content`. Certain response headers such as `Age`, `Location`, and `Server` are used to provide more context about the response.
	- Server:
		- Contains information about the HTTP server, which processed the request. It can be used to gain information about the server, such as its version, and enumerate it further.
		- i.e. Server: Apache/2.2.14 (Win32)
	- Set-Cookie:
		- Contains the cookies needed for client identification. Browsers parse the cookies and store them for future requests. This header follows the same format as the `Cookie` request header.
	- WWW-Authenticate:
		- Notifies the client about the type of authentication required to access the requested resource.
		- i.e. WWW-Authenticate: BASIC realm="localhost"
5. `Security Headers`
	- are `a class of response headers used to specify certain rules and policies` to be followed by the browser while accessing the website.
	- Content-Security-Policy
		- Dictates the website's policy towards externally injected resources. This could be JavaScript code as well as script resources. This header instructs the browser to accept resources only from certain trusted domains, hence preventing attacks such as Cross-site scripting (XSS)
		- i.e. Content-Security-Policy: script-src 'self'
	- Referrer-Policy:
		- Dictates whether the browser should include the value specified via the `Referer`header or not. It can help in avoiding disclosing sensitive URLs and information while browsing the website.